# TÜBİTAK 2209-A University Students Research Projects - Blockchain-Based Household Waste Recycling Mobile Application

Population growth and the development of urban centers have supported the increase in the amount of household solid waste. Therefore, one of the most significant problems in urban areas has been the management of solid waste due to serious environmental issues. Although 73.1% of individuals think that it is important to separate household waste, 50.4% of them collect it mixed without separation, while those who do separate it generally separate paper waste into a separate bin from the mixed one (%34.6).

Those who do not separate waste have expressed that the biggest reason is the difficulty of creating separate bins (%33.8), and they also stated that they throw away their waste whenever they want (%28.6). 60.5% of individuals are aware of the recycling of waste, and 31.5% believe that separating waste benefits the environment.

In this study, a blockchain-based mobile application will be implemented. Especially with the effect of the pandemic, human habits have significantly changed in recent times. People started meeting their needs online, such as shopping for clothes and groceries. This situation has caused people to become more lazy. Even though people separate their waste, they have difficulties in delivering it to the waste collection centers. Our goal in this project is to eliminate the need for individuals to deliver their sorted waste to the collection centers. Instead, with the logistic system that will be established around the mobile application, waste will be collected from the users' location. With the blockchain-based system to be developed, transparency will be a key feature. By eliminating the long stages in the supply chain, we will have a more secure system. While users will save time, the collectors will also save money. In this way, users will contribute to recycling in an easy and convenient way from their location.
